## Functionality of the application

#### The design and functionality of the application was meant to be simple, so that the users won’t need a lot of experience in the IT domain at the same time not sacrificing any features. 

#### At the registration process, the user will be prompted to enter his stats, mainly, his weight, height, date of birth and fitness goals. Based on them, the application will automatically calculate the daily necessary caloric intake, together with the amount of protein, carbohydrates and fats needed for achieving the respective fitness goal. If the user wants to change their respective fitness goal, they can do that in the “Profile” tab with just 2 clicks.

#### The first page displayed after a successful login will be the “Home” page, where the user can see the daily amount of calories and macronutrients needed for achieving his respective goal, called “Daily Target Numbers”, and proportionally represented on a pie chart. In the second section there will be the current consumed amount of calories and macronutrients, which are also proportionally represented on a pie chart. If the user doesn’t like numbers, but still wants to know if he is eating the right amount of food, he can take a look on these 2 pie charts and come to an easy conclusion.

#### On the “Meals” tab the user can select the respective food from the database, enter the amount of grams consumed and it will add it to his daily meals (?). The calories, proteins, carbohydrates and fats of the respective food will be calculated automatically based on the amount of grams entered and saved to the users current daily intake, after which they will be displayed on the “Meals” tab. The user can also remove the respective food from the daily list, if they made a mistake for example, by pressing the red button located on the right side of the food item. There is also a feature that lets the user see how many calories, proteins, carbohydrates and fats he consumed in the previous days, by pressing on the “History” button in the “Meals” tab.

#### On the “Workouts” tab, the user will firstly see 2 buttons, one is an “Add” button, which by pressing, will open a window containing 2 fields, one for the exercise name and the other one for the number of repetitions done for that exercise. After pressing the “Confirm” button, the respective exercise together with the amount of repetitions done will be added to the users daily workouts, visible on the “Workouts” tab. If the user wants to remove the respective exercise, he can easily do that by pressing the red button, located on the right side of the item. Just like on the “Meals” tab, the user can also see his previous workout history, by pressing the “History” button on the “Workouts” tab. 

#### The “Profile” tab is the place where the user can change and update his information by changing the respective field with the new information and simply pressing on the button “Update information”. If the user is more advanced, or doesn’t like the amount of the calculated calories and macronutrients, he can customize them on this tab. By reducing or increasing the calories, the macronutrients will change accordingly and vice-versa.
